Project	Name : ASSESSMENT-2: IoT Application


Student	Name:		Niall O’Neill
Student	ID:		20082280



Tools,Technologies and Equipment

For my project I propose to build an app that will show decibel levels in my local public house. The app will also show the temperature inside the pub. I also intend to build a website that will show the above information.

The hardware I will be using is a Raspberry Pi 3, Model B+. I will have to add a sound sensor to the Pi as it is not preinstalled. The Pi will be left in the pub for a week or so and the programs will start up when the pi is turned on and rerun every 5 minutes or so.

I also intend to have the Pi detect when certain MAC addresses of friends phones are connected the WIFI in the pub. When the are on, a text message will be sent to me or anyone who I chose to notify them that a certain person is in the pub.

I would like to write a small program in Java to facilitate a local chat room whereby
Certain users could message each other on the website, preferably on the app ut I need to explore this more. The program language I intend to use for this is Java.

For the project, I intend to use both the Wia IOT platform for the website and the programming will be mainly done using the Python programming language. I intend to use the wia MQQT API for publication and subscription and possibly MessageBird for sms text notifications.

Fow mobile application I intend to use blynk and am yet to fully explore whats on offer here. 


Project	Repository
niallo1000/ASSESSMENT-2-IoT-Application

RESULT
The project changed upon developmentof the app.I was usig a grove Pi sensehat rather than the usualsense hat. The purpose of this was to use the sound dectector
that came with the kit. I was unable to get sound sensor working and after numerous hours trying different things to get it going, I changed the project using the 
kit additions that I could get going. I was in touch with the manufaturers of the grove pi and their boards to find a solution. One recommendation from Grove was to 
flash the hardware but this failed also. The error was to dowitht he Grove Pi Python liberies which wasnt going to be a quick fix on their side.
I did gain some valuable experience from trying various installs and found my way around Python/Linux better because of all this.

The project ended up as per below and although not as I set out to do, it still demenstrated an Internet of Things application.

For my project I propose to build an app that will check the presence of friends in my local public house. The app will be run using Blynk from my mobile phone.

I also intend to have the Pi detect when certain MAC addresses of friends phones are connected the WIFI in the pub. The  Grove Buzzer will be connected to the pi so that I can notify the barman that I am on the way and also the Grove LCD RGB Backlight will display a message I send via my blynk app on my phone.

The Pi will be left in the pub for a week or so and the program will start up when the pi is turned on and run when the buttons on the Blynk app re pressed.


For the project, I intend to use both the Wia IOT platform for the website and the programming will be mainly done using the Python programming language. 
Write a	list of things you propose to use in your work.

The hardware I will be using is a Raspberry Pi 3, Model B+. I will also use a Grove Pi+, a Grove Buzzer and the Grove LCD RGB Backlight.
